
Title: Live Reviews[https://prereview.org/live-reviews]

Live Reviews are topic-centered, interactive preprint review calls via a video conference tool such as Zoom. Outputs from Live Reviews can be used to improve a manuscript or be integrated into journal review workflows.

Core to PREreview's mission is increasing diversity, equity, and inclusion in scholarly peer review. Live Reviews allow structured and constructive discussions following guided discussion questions that encourage diverse methods of participation.
Why Live Reviews?

    To support and empower the voices of all the experts, particularly those who have historically been excluded from the peer review process and those who are in the beginning stages of their research careers
    To showcase a kinder, more collaborative, joyful and transparent way to provide constructive, clear and actionable feedback to preprint authors
    To deliver this feedback to the authors and the communities who benefit from it in a timely manner

Who participates?

    Two facilitators from our team with experience in hosting Live Reviews
    A topic expert (optional) to guide participants through a constructive discussion
    Preprint authors (optional) to gather live feedback on their preprint
    Researchers and experts who join from all over the world ready to collaborate on improving a preprint, build their network, and meet other experts

What are the event outputs?

After the call, our team works with the Live Review participants interested in authoring the review to summarize the discussion into a full PREreview that is then published on PREreview.org.

The reviewers will be listed as review authors using either their real name or their unique PREreview pseudonym. In some cases, the review resulting from the call is integrated into the journal-organized peer review process—as it is the case for some of our collaborations with journals like JMIR Publications and Current Research in Neurobiology.

Here you can find the reviews that we published as outputs of Live Review events, including those run with JMIR Publications which can be found in the JMIR Publications Club.
Interested in PREreview Live Reviews?

To request our support to run a Live Review or to discuss how they can be integrated into your workflow, email us at community@prereview.org.

Current and past collaborations to host Live Reviews of preprints submitted to a journal include contracting work with JMIR Publications and Current Research in Neurobiology, respectively.

